and that is why you will never hear me
mention his name he is a terrorist he is
a criminal he is an extremist but he
will when I speak be nameless how do you
think the world is going to make
progress on this issue the example of
the Christchurch massacre is it gonna be
through pious ignorance is it going to
be would it have been better would it
have been better for the world if they
sat back and said oh no no no no I would
never speak the name of Osama bin Laden
I would never read or sama bin Laden's
political platform and understand what
his objectives are how he's different
from some groups of Muslim extremists
and we similar to others and what the
linkages are and what the nature of the
threat is oh no no no no I am too
morally pure I choose to live in a state
of pious ignorance over such details
because I don't want to give the killer
a name I don't want to give the killer a
face you're goddamn wrong the least you
can do is know the killer's name in the
killer's face you should press beyond
that and develop a nuanced sophisticated
understanding of what the political
situation is want to feature and applaud
that because it is very nice to see that
at a high government level it's a thing
that we've talked about for years we've
talked about it on a personal and a news
organization level the nameless keep
them faceless there's a lot that we can
learn from the situation without
inadvertently making these people
infamous what's what is the alternative
here do you want to live in a world
where journalists think it is their
moral responsibility to conceal these
things from you rather than reveal them
do you want to live in a world where
members of parliament whether it's the
New Zealand Parliament or the British
Parliament or the Canadian Parliament
where members of parliament think it's
very responsibility to keep you locked
in a state of pious ignorance where you
don't know the name and you're the face
and you don't know the political
ideology of the people who are pulling
the triggers and blowing up bombs who
are having a huge political impact in
the world around you and that the
government and the CIA are responding to
without any democratic oversight with
any any involvement of the public of
course it wasn't just YouTube there was
actually a report where Facebook said
they deleted one
point five million videos that contain
footage of the shooting in the first 24
hours alone really if there's anything
that could attach to the end of this is
to to the news orgs the companies the
the people like the prime minister of
New Zealand to your everyday people that
are not giving a murderer what they want
and you also try and spread this
movement of no face no name let's take
it all the way back to ancient Greece if
you really want to know what went down
in the war between Athens and Sparta you
have got to read primary sources you
have got to read through cities you have
got to read Aristotle can even read
stuff like Xenophon everybody is lying
still in the Year 2019
after everyone falls that war has been
dead and gone almost everything you hear
from modern sources on that is
propaganda even the stuff you hear from
ancient Rome were moved by just a few
centuries from the events in ancient
Greece is propaganda whether the people
participating in it or aware that it's
propaganda or not one of the most
commonly said things about that war
between Sparta and Athens is that only
Athens represented democracy and that in
Sparta they had no democracy at all okay
and then you go and read primary source
then you go and you read through Citadis
describing for you how there was a
debate in sparta at the start of the war
about whether or not basically whether
or not they should go to war with Athens
at all guess what
public consultation and a debate and
voting they didn't follow the same
voting procedure as Athens they
basically did more like however everyone
in the room raised their hands and when
that wasn't clear they said okay
everyone who wants to go to war stand
over there everyone who wants peace
stand over there just have people vote
by walkie drops in the rooms guess what
the more you look in the details whether
you look in Thucydides you look at
Aristotle it looks like the difference
in degrees of democracy between Sparta
and Athens is a lot more debatable there
were definitely people who could have
stood up instead that they preferred
Spartan mode of democracy over the
athenian still to this day what happened
at the Battle of Marathon why do we have
this word Marathon in the English
language to an unbelievable extent still
to this day you are looking at lies and
propaganda if you don't get down to the
level of primary source the original
opinions of the particular people who
were really there who really lived
through it people with a particular face
and a particular name and a particular
bias for sure by the way Aristotle has
his own bias through cities has his own
bias they're all biased sources but
there's a world of difference between
working with those original sources that
were on the ground and working with the
opinions of people just a few decades
later let alone a few centuries later
okay this is political history we're all
supposed to be detached about hey hey
let me ask you son do you feel you've
gotten an unbiased impression of who the
Kurdish armies are who the Kurdish
rebels are in the still ongoing you know
civil wars of you know
Iraq this even involves Iran to a
limited extent Turkey Syria do you think
you think you've you've gotten a really
clear view of that I mean the narrative
presented in the newspapers has been oh
the Islamic state is bad which it is by
the way I'm a hundred percent against
Isis don't we be wrong the Islamic state
is bad but then um these other Islamic
states like Saudi Arabia oh there's no
problem with America supporting Saudi
Arabia do do Saudi Arabia is an Islamic
state
it is a theocracy that presents itself
as a legitimate form of an Islamic state
in the same sense that Sparta presented
itself as a legitimate democracy so did
be OSHA and a lot of other states that
competed with um Athens to what extent
or another Athens Oh even Crete the
island of Crete they felt they had the
legitimate democracy right and there
were
courses that are interesting between
these different democracies in in the
ancient Hellenic word the ancient like
well guess what there were different
ideas about what an Islamic state should
be different ideas about Islamic
orthodoxy and they kind of sort of go to
war with each other all the time
do you think that the Taliban don't
think that they represent a legitimate
Islamic state yet the Taliban you get
Saudi Arabia of course Iran has its own
idea of what a modern theocracy is
supposed to be so on and so forth and
you know the kind of white Western
english-speaking newspapers they step
into this as if they're gonna tell us in
the public oh don't worry
the Muslim fundamentalists who happen to
be convenient for the American Empire to
be allied with like the Kurds and like
Saudi Arabia those people those aren't
Islamic States
oh no no only Isis is an Islamic state
and the way to pierce this illusion is
just to start working with primary
source materials I know somebody who
knows somebody who actually flew over
and joined the the Kurdish rebel armies
so I know somebody on the Internet
we've never met face to face and he was
friends with somebody who believed the
white Western left-wing hype about the
Kurds that the Kurds represented some
kind of secular socialist feminist ideal
and she a white Western english-speaking
female she flew over to sign up to fight
for the Kurds and now she's dead she
died not even fighting for the dream of
a Kurdish homeland or something that had
nothing to do with her
she died fighting for [ __ ]
propaganda on the Internet okay the
Kurds are Muslim they are deeply
profoundly Islamic however you want to
put it their idea of what an Islamic
state should be differs from Isis and
differs from here Iran and differs from
Saudi Arabia and by the same token the
government of Saudi Arabia has its
differences from the Taliban and has its
differences from Isis and they all
demonstrate those differences by killing
large numbers of people and spending up
a huge military budget okay
I either you're working from primary
source materials to understand what's
going on or you are not when people
really want to understand who Osama bin
Laden was what motivated him what
political faction or tendency he
represented anyone who worked with
primary source materials very rapidly
got into difficult questions about the
geopolitical relationship between Saudi
Arabia and Yemen and even where Osama
bin Laden's own family stood in relation
to Yemen versus Saudi politics right
they opened the door onto this whole
world of jihadists anti-imperialist
discourse and you start to figure out
the different directions and cross
currents and what it is precisely that
Osama bin Laden represented what kind of
threat going for what type of objectives
in contrast to other players in that
political game okay how do you think the
world is going to make progress on this
issue the example of the Christchurch
massacre is it going to be through pious
ignorance is it going to be would it
have been better would it have been
better for the world if they sat back
and said oh no no oh no no I would never
speak the name of Osama bin Laden
I would never read Osama bin Laden's
political platform and understand what
his objectives are how he's different
from some groups of Muslim extremists
now he's similar to others and what the
linkages are and what the nature of the
threat is and you know what if what's
gonna happen in Scenario XY instead of
you oh no no no no I am too morally pure
I choose to live in a state of pious
ignorance over such details because I
don't want to give the killer a name I
don't want to give the killer a face
you're goddamn wrong the least you can
do is know the killer's name in the
killer's face you should press beyond
that and develop a nuanced sophisticated
understanding of what the political
situation is know who it is you're
disagreeing with and why what's what is
the alternative here do you want to live
in a world
we're journalists think it is their
moral responsibility to conceal these
things from you rather than reveal them
do you want to live in a world where
members of parliament whether it's the
New Zealand Parliament or the British
Parliament or the Canadian Parliament
where members of parliament think it's
very responsibility to keep you lock in
a state of pious ignorance where you
don't know the name and you're the face
and you don't know the political
ideology of the people who are pulling
the triggers and blowing up bombs who
are having a huge political impact in
the world around you and that the
government and the CIA are responding to
without any democratic oversight with
any any involvement of the public that
this is worse than the kind of standard
dystopian fantasy it's worse because
what they're inviting you the public to
do is feel a sense of moral
self-righteousness in preserving your
own ignorance and encouraging the
self-righteous ignorance of others the
way to respond to the shock and horror
of history whether it's the
assassination of JFK President States
President Kennedy or Osama bin Laden or
the unbelievable atrocities committed by
by communists around the world
okay okay let's get more specific here
there is a famous massacre that took
place at an airport by Japanese
political extremists I'm probably gonna
get the names subtly wrong here
the Yogo doe massacre oh sorry I could
at Google that um
a group of Japanese extremists it deeply
shocked and horrified the people of
Japan people of Japan up to that point
really felt that this type of terrorist
attack was something that happened in
the Middle East and happened various
other foreign exotic cultures people in
Japan were deeply shocked that educated
Japanese people would engage in this
type of terrorist attack it was
horrifying to the people of Japan for a
decade it was one of the most
talked-about things do you think it
would have been better or worse for the
people of Japan if their journalists and
their members of parliament their
government responded to this by trying
to obscure and hide the names
faces and political ideologies of the
people who participated in that massacre
and that terrorist attack know you
should know the names you should know
the faces you should learn what the
political ideology is and then you can
respond participating in a democracy not
handing over your right to think and
judge and make decisions to a de facto
aristocratic elite who make those
decisions on your behalf and we all know
that is the reality of u.s. foreign
policy in the 21st century there is
nothing Democratic about how America
decided that they were going to support
the Kurds there was no public debate
there was no vote there was no
referendum oh gee guess what a tiny
number of aristocrats living in
Washington DC decided that America's
foreign policy interests are compatible
with Kurdish nationalism so now billions
of dollars of US taxpayers money will go
into supporting the dream of a Kurdish
state or several plural Kurdish states
right
why was there some kind of public
discourse maybe the American people
would prefer to support turkey or would
prefer to support Syria what possible
basis would the American public engage
in and make a judgment as to supporting
the Kurds as opposed to the Turks or the
Syrians or even the Iranians of the
iraqis of the iraqis meaning of the
Iraqi population in Baghdad and what
they want as opposed to what the Kurdish
might already wants who engaged in this
this public democratic discourse nobody
all of those decisions are made in a
black box and then the rationale for
them is presented to you through a
completely dishonest and slanted
mainstream media coverage that's willing
to pretend that Kurdish people are
secular and democratic and reasonable or
even that they're anti-muslim because
they're the ones voting they're the ones
fighting against the Islamic state guess
what the Kurds are no more anti Islamic
than the government of Saudi Arabia is
anti Islamic these are competing notions
of what an Islamic state might be could
be or should be that Ardi not merely
engaging in debate as to the future of
the religion of Islam they're in a state
of war against one other okay
this example of the Japanese terrorists
so people in Japan were shocked and the
next step was figuring out what the
ideology behind these these people were
the so called a Red Army Faction in
Japan and guess what
the people engaged in this terrorist
attack they were communists and they
represented a particular school of
thought particular ideology within
communism and then became incredibly
important for Japanese parents to talk
to their own students and Japanese
university professors to talk to their
pupils to engage in a discourse with
young people who might really be seduced
by the radical claims of some of these
communist extremists say look guys I
know this is what they're telling you
but here's the reality or here are some
other things for you to consider to it
to enrich and deepen the discourse
surrounding communism in Japan at that
time communism was an ideology then that
was actively recruiting followers and a
tiny minority of them engage in
terrorist attacks but this became a
really important learning moment talk
about learning the lessons of history
that all of Japan had to engage in and
guess what
the Communists in the end lost but the
Communists were not defeated by people
living in a state of pious ignorance
they lost because people engage in a
really meaningful discourse about all of
these issues claims and counterclaims
etc and the people of Japan like the
people of Western Europe came to new
conclusions and new insights about
communism is this unrelated to the
massacre that just took place in
Christchurch New Zealand no it is not
did you know that the man who just
pulled the triggers in Christchurch New
Zealand was a communist
I searched really quickly the internet
Google is an imperfect tool I could not
find any example of a mainstream
newspaper that included this information
I think that discussed the extent to
which he was communist and the extent to
which he specifically said that he
admired communist China as his model of
a society there are some non mainstream
sources
I found Breitbart address
and there is a Chinese newspaper which
is specifically an anti-communist
Chinese newspaper called the F Hawk
times and they they covered it but when
you look around new york times other
mainstream news sources they either
downplayed they D emphasized or they
completely omitted the extent to which
the Christchurch mass murder of the
Christchurch terrorist was connected to
communism okay
so again the extent to which human
beings are dishonest and engage in
propaganda consciously or unconsciously
intentionally or unintentionally it
plays out still to this day in giving an
account of what happened in the war
between Athens and Sparta it played out
in a very significant way when human
beings in Japan had to grapple with the
shock and horror of seeing their own
young people recruited to an extremist
ideology and then carrying out a
terrorist attack right and it plays out
again now but people's complicity in
propaganda increases through social
media you on Facebook you on Twitter you
on your own YouTube channel if you have
one you on social media get to play the
role of the sensor and the propagandist
to a small extent and what these sources
including philip defranco are doing is
inviting you to feel self-righteous and
moral in your own small way by you
refusing to read the manifesto refusing
to know this guy's face or his name
refusing to say his face or his name no
don't live in pious ignorance don't pull
the wool over your own eyes don't pull
the wool over other people's eyes if
we're going to solve these problems it's
gonna be through truth honesty analysis
active research informed opinion living
lives that ultimately are rooted in
nonfiction I mean really people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
my name is I don't know